---
publish: true
professor: '[[People/Mark Aagaard]]'
related:
- '[[Evergreen/Mathematics]]'
- '[[Evergreen/Proofs]]'
- '[[Evergreen/Discrete Math]]'
- '[[Evergreen/Logic]]'
- '[[Evergreen/Probability]]'
- '[[Evergreen/Set Theory]]'
textbook:
- '[[Attachments/Textbooks/MATH135 - Notes.pdf|MATH135 - Notes]]'
- '[[Attachments/Textbooks/ECE108 - Textbook.pdf|ECE108 - Discrete Math]]'
- '[[Attachments/Textbooks/ECE108 - Discrete Math and Logic 1.pdf|ECE108 - Discrete
  Math and Logic 1]]'
term: 1B
started: 2024-01-08
contact: maagaard@uwaterloo.ca
---

- Notes:
	- [drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1PtND3V40NKXM4WpcmSbw7b-55PD3Rtr8)
	- [MATH122 - uvic](https://www.math.uvic.ca/faculty/gmacgill/LFNotes/)

```dataview
TABLE file.lists.text AS "Concepts", status AS "Status"
FROM "Courses/ECE108"
WHERE file.name != "ECE108"
WHERE contains(string(file.lists.section), "Outline")
SORT date
```

# Outline
- Assignments due 9pm Tuesday (crowdmark). (lowest dropped)
- No TUT!

---
- Converse's are not necessarily true.
- Contrapositives are same as the original proposition.
- Stronger statement means that the statement gives us more information.
	- More information => more conditions.
	- This means that a stronger statement is true-er in _fewer_ environments.
- Operators:
	- AND, OR, NOT - pretty obvious.
	- **Implication ($p \to q$): if $p$, then $q$.**
		- In real life there is usually some connection between the LHS and RHS of an implication; a cause and effect.
		- This is not required in logic, they just need to satisfy the truth table.
		- So don't use too much intuition with implication.
		- Think of implication as a promise "If you pass all your classes, you get an ice cream".
			- The only way this promise is broken is if you pass all the classes, but don't get an ice cream.
			- Also, if you fail the class and still get an ice cream, the promise is not broken–the statement says nothing about when you don't pass.
			- So implication is true (regardless of RHS) when the LHS is false–Vacuous truths.
		- Since implication is true even when the LHS is false, it's not "only if"', it's just "if".
		- "only if" reverses the implication cuz we don't want it to be true when RHS is false. So we flip to match the truth table.
	- Bi-conditional (p $\leftrightarrow q$): if and only if $p$, then $q$.
- **Propositional Logic:** We build up relationships between our propositions using these operators.
- When formalizing, don't just read the english version of the statements cuz our natural notions of english are very ambiguous. Draw truth tables for the statements and then determine the operators.
- Use Nissanke's rules while formalizing.
- **Predicate Logic:**
	- Types, quantifiers, functions, predicates (bool funcs).
	- Type defs are similar to Typescript.
		- Basic: blue: color, yash: person
		- Product (like struct): <volvo, green>: <vehicle, color>
		- Function:
			- <string, int> $\to$ color
			- func_name(name: string, age: int) $\to$ color
		- Predicate: <string, int> $\to$ bool
	- Uninterpreted types:
		- Type student
		- Similar to interfaces; we don't know the implementation.
	- Type checking (manual) but used to verify correctness of expressions.
	- Functions: just like math/prog.
	- Predicate: a boolean function. Relationship between objects.
	- Quantifiers: used to kinda _iterate_ over an array of objects.
		- $\forall\ x: \text{person}$- for all $x$ of type person such that ....
		- $\exists\ x: \text{person}$- there exists an x of type person such that...
		- They also have scope and can be overwritten (danger!)
	- ==Checkout negation==

# Proof by Counterexample
- Setup an environment where the assumptions are true, but the goal is false.
- Since the assumptions are supposed to imply the goal, here we would have F => T. Which breaks the implication, evaluating to a false.
- When the goal has the universal quantifier, we just need to show one example where the goal is false. Breaking the forall quantifier.
- If the goal has an existential, then we must show that the negation of the goal is always true.
- If the types are declared, but not defined, we can extend it by adding elements to it.

---
# Set Theory
- Basic defs like set, multiset, subset, strict subset, power set etc.

- Set's provide a _natural_ way to iterate/quantify over variables.
- The set of all integers:
$$
\begin{align}
S = \{ x\ |\ x: \mathbb Z \}\\
\forall x: \mathbb Z
\end{align}
$$
- Set builder notation: similar to list comprehension in python.
$$
S = \{ f(x)\ |\ x: \mathbb Z\ .\ x \ge -10 \}
$$
- The set contains $f(x)$ for numbers greater than -10.
- We can also use quantifiers within set builder for the _other_ variable. The variable who's function is not defining the set.

- Sets, functions and predicates are very closely related. Set is kinda like syntactic sugar to refer to $x$ that satisfy the builder function.

- Syntactic sugar:
$$
\begin{align}
\forall x:Ty. x \in S \implies p(x)\\
\forall x \in S . p(x)\\\\

\exists x: Ty . x \in S \implies p(x)\\
\exists x \in S . p(x)
\end{align}
$$

## Sets vs Builder Functions
- Sets are basically a concise representation of the builder function.
- Makes them nice in algorithms.
- But when doing proofs we have to explode the set into it's builder function anyway.
- So use characteristic functions in proofs.

## Types vs Sets
- An object can have only one type (screw inheritance).
- An object may belong in multiple sets.

## Functions vs Predicates
- Functions cannot return null.
- So a function that returns hair color, must always return color. Even when the person is bald or has multicolored hair. This breaks.
- Here we can instead use predicates to _check_ if the person has hair of color _x_.
- Predicates are more flexible, but the restrictiveness of functions also gives us this:
$$
\begin{align}
f(x_1) = f(x_2) \implies x_1 = x_2\\
g(p, x_1) = g(p, x_2) \not\Rightarrow x_1 = x_2\\
\end{align}
$$
- We can't do that with  predicates.

- We can't define a function to return elements from a set.
- Since the function would have to _always_ return an element, what would it return for an empty set?

- Type / metadata of set do not tell us anything about it's structure, num of contents etc. It's kinda a black box.