---
publish: true
professor: "[[People/Ajoy Opal]]"
related:
  - "[[Evergreen/Linear Circuits]]"
textbook:
  - "[[Attachments/Textbooks/ECE140 - Textbook.pdf|ECE140 - Textbook]]"
term: 1B
started: 2024-01-08
contact: aopal@uwaterloo.ca
---

Notes:
- [drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1fGmtzygVaaSLMCMvG7Zcj_iHa5eRCEEd)
- [github pdf scan](https://github.com/aaronabraham311/Notes/blob/master/1B/140_Notes.pdf)
- [obsidian quarts notes](https://stevengong.co/notes/Linear-Circuits)


```dataview
TABLE file.lists.text AS "Concepts", status AS "Status"
FROM "Courses/ECE140"
WHERE file.name != "ECE140"
WHERE contains(string(file.lists.section), "Outline")
SORT date
```

# Outline
- CDT (assignment) closes Friday.
	- No way to restart/pause - 1.5 hrs.
- TUT for help with TA.

---
# Notes

# Basic
- Power:
	- $P = \frac{dw}{dt} = \frac{dw}{dq}\frac{dq}{dt} = vi$
	- Positive power: power absorbed by component: current entering at positive terminal & exiting via negative.
	- Negative power: power supplied by component: current entering at negative terminal & exiting via positive.
- Series / Parallel:
	- Parallel: same voltage across components; net current is sum of current in individual branches. Net current supplied by batteries is sum.
	- Series: same current across components; net voltage is sum of rise / drops across individual components. Net voltage supplied by batteries is the sum.
- Sources
	- Independent: represented by circle; supplied current/voltage not affected by input current/voltage.
	- Dependent sources: represented by a diamond; supplied current/voltage is affected by input current/voltage.
- Ohm's Law: $V = IR$; resistance measures opposition to current flow.
- Conductance: $G = \frac 1R\ \text{Siemens or mhos}$; measures how easily current flows.
- Open circuit: $\lim_{R\to \infty} I = 0$; infinite resistance: no current.
- Short circuit: $\lim_{R\to 0} I = \infty$; no resistance: infinite current. The _short path_ has no resistance, the potential across this path drops to zero quickly.

# Kirchhoff's Laws
## Kirchhoff's Current Law
$$
\sum i_{\text{in}} = \sum i_{\text{out}}
$$
- Since charges don't accumulate at any point in the circuit.
- The net charge flowing into the node must be the same as the net charge flowing out.
- **Node:** junction of two or more elements. Doesn't have to be a single point (wires are zero resistance).
- Num. of equations = Num. of nodes - 1
## Kirchhof's Voltage Law
$$
\sum V_{\text{drops}} = \sum V_{\text{rises}}
$$
- Net voltage rise/drop along any loop is zero.
- Each component is encountered only once per loop.
- Num. of equations = Num. of meshes.
- Mesh: loop with no inner loop.

# Nodal Analysis
- **Essential nodes:** nodes with more than 3 components
- **Reference nodes:** one of the essential nodes, where we assume v = 0.
- **Node Voltage:** voltage of node w.r.t to reference node.
- Voltage: $\Delta V$ across elmeent
- Current flows from higher to lower.
- **Supernode:** we can group non-trivial subcircuits and treat them as a single node.
- **Supernode Analysis:** ignore the voltage source; no charge accumulation => net current = 0.

# Thevenin's Theorem
- A complex linear circuit at ports a, b can be replaced by an equivalent circuit with $V_{TH}$ in series with $R_{TH}$, where $V_{TH}$ is the open circuit voltage at the terminals a, b.
## Calculating Thevenin Equivalent Circuit
- Just turn off all independent sources.
- $R_{TH}:$ simplify circuit to calculate equivalent resistance.
- Then go back to the original circuit, turn on each source individually and use superposition to calculate voltage across the port a,b.

- Thevenin voltage is 0 when our (mini) circuit has no independent sources.

# Maximum Power Transfer Theroem
$$
P = \Big(\frac{V_{TH}}{R_{TH} + R_L}\Big)^2R_L
$$
- Max happens when $R_{L} = R_{TH}$. $R_L$ is the load resistor.